docs/en/latest/plugins/wolf-rbac.md, before:

---
title: wolf-rbac
keywords:
  - Apache APISIX
  - API Gateway
  - Plugin
  - wolf RBAC
  - wolf-rbac
description: This document contains information about the Apache APISIX wolf-rbac Plugin.
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Description

The `wolf-rbac` Plugin provides a [role-based access control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control) system with [wolf](https://github.com/iGeeky/wolf) to a Route or a Service. This Plugin can be used with a [Consumer](../terminology/consumer.md).

## Attributes

| Name          | Type   | Required | Default                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------|--------|----------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| server        | string | False    | "http://127.0.0.1:12180" | Service address of wolf server.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| appid         | string | False    | "unset"                  | App id added in wolf console. This field supports saving the value in Secret Manager using the [APISIX Secret](../terminology/secret.md) resource.            |
| header_prefix | string | False    | "X-"                     | Prefix for a custom HTTP header. After authentication is successful, three headers will be added to the request header (for backend) and response header (for frontend) namely: `X-UserId`, `X-Username`, and `X-Nickname`. |

## API

This Plugin will add the following endpoints when enabled:

- `/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login`
- `/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/change_pwd`
- `/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/user_info`

:::note

You may need to use the [public-api](public-api.md) Plugin to expose this endpoint.

:::

## Pre-requisites

To use this Plugin, you have to first [install wolf](https://github.com/iGeeky/wolf/blob/master/quick-start-with-docker/README.md) and start it.

Once you have done that you need to add `application`, `admin`, `normal user`, `permission`, `resource` and user authorize to the [wolf-console](https://github.com/iGeeky/wolf/blob/master/docs/usage.md).

## Enable Plugin

You need to first configure the Plugin on a Consumer:

:::note
You can fetch the `admin_key` from `config.yaml` and save to an environment variable with the following command:

```bash
admin_key=$(yq '.deployment.admin.admin_key[0].key' conf/config.yaml | sed 's/"//g')
```

:::

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/consumers  -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
  "username":"wolf_rbac",
  "plugins":{
    "wolf-rbac":{
      "server":"http://127.0.0.1:12180",
      "appid":"restful"
    }
  },
  "desc":"wolf-rbac"
}'
```

:::note

The `appid` added in the configuration should already exist in wolf.

:::

You can now add the Plugin to a Route or a Service:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uri": "/*",
    "plugins": {
        "wolf-rbac": {}
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "www.baidu.com:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

You can also use the [APISIX Dashboard](/docs/dashboard/USER_GUIDE) to complete the operation through a web UI.

<!--
![add a consumer](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/apisix/master/docs/assets/images/plugin/wolf-rbac-1.png)

![enable wolf-rbac plugin](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/apisix/master/docs/assets/images/plugin/wolf-rbac-2.png)
-->

## Example usage

You can use the `public-api` Plugin to expose the API:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/wal -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login",
    "plugins": {
        "public-api": {}
    }
}'
```

Similarly, you can setup the Routes for `change_pwd` and `user_info`.

You can now login and get a wolf `rbac_token`:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login -i \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"appid": "restful", "username":"test", "password":"user-password", "authType":1}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2019 10:33:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX web server
{"rbac_token":"V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts","user_info":{"nickname":"test","username":"test","id":"749"}}
```

:::note

The `appid`, `username`, and `password` must be configured in the wolf system.

`authType` is the authentication type—1 for password authentication (default) and 2 for LDAP authentication (v0.5.0+).

:::

You can also make a post request with `x-www-form-urlencoded` instead of JSON:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login -i \
-H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
-d 'appid=restful&username=test&password=user-password'
```

Now you can test the Route:

- without token:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/ -H"Host: www.baidu.com" -i
```

```
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
...
{"message":"Missing rbac token in request"}
```

- with token in `Authorization` header:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/ -H"Host: www.baidu.com" \
-H 'Authorization: V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

- with token in `x-rbac-token` header:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/ -H"Host: www.baidu.com" \
-H 'x-rbac-token: V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

- with token in request parameters:

```shell
curl 'http://127.0.0.1:9080?rbac_token=V1%23restful%23eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts' -H"Host: www.baidu.com" -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

- with token in cookie:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080 -H"Host: www.baidu.com" \
--cookie x-rbac-token=V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts -i
```

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

And to get a user information:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/user_info \
--cookie x-rbac-token=V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "user_info":{
        "nickname":"test",
        "lastLogin":1582816780,
        "id":749,
        "username":"test",
        "appIDs":["restful"],
        "manager":"none",
        "permissions":{"USER_LIST":true},
        "profile":null,
        "roles":{},
        "createTime":1578820506,
        "email":""
    }
}
```

And to change a user's password:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/change_pwd \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--cookie x-rbac-token=V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts -i \
-X PUT -d '{"oldPassword": "old password", "newPassword": "new password"}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{"message":"success to change password"}
```

## Delete Plugin

To remove the `wolf-rbac` Plugin, you can delete the corresponding JSON configuration from the Plugin configuration. APISIX will automatically reload and you do not have to restart for this to take effect.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uri": "/*",
    "plugins": {
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "www.baidu.com:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

Commit message:

feat(wolf): improve the error message when requesting to wolf failed and if password is wrong, return a more readable error

docs/en/latest/plugins/wolf-rbac.md, after:

---
title: wolf-rbac
keywords:
  - Apache APISIX
  - API Gateway
  - Plugin
  - wolf RBAC
  - wolf-rbac
description: This document contains information about the Apache APISIX wolf-rbac Plugin.
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Description

The `wolf-rbac` Plugin provides a [role-based access control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control) system with [wolf](https://github.com/iGeeky/wolf) to a Route or a Service. This Plugin can be used with a [Consumer](../terminology/consumer.md).

## Attributes

| Name          | Type   | Required | Default                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------|--------|----------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| server        | string | False    | "http://127.0.0.1:12180" | Service address of wolf server.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| appid         | string | False    | "unset"                  | App id added in wolf console. This field supports saving the value in Secret Manager using the [APISIX Secret](../terminology/secret.md) resource.            |
| header_prefix | string | False    | "X-"                     | Prefix for a custom HTTP header. After authentication is successful, three headers will be added to the request header (for backend) and response header (for frontend) namely: `X-UserId`, `X-Username`, and `X-Nickname`. |
| error_message | string | False    | "request to wolf-server failed!" | Custom error message when request to wolf server fails. Note that for username/password errors, a fixed message "username or password is incorrect" will be returned regardless of this setting. |

## API

This Plugin will add the following endpoints when enabled:

- `/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login`
- `/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/change_pwd`
- `/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/user_info`

:::note

You may need to use the [public-api](public-api.md) Plugin to expose this endpoint.

:::

## Pre-requisites

To use this Plugin, you have to first [install wolf](https://github.com/iGeeky/wolf/blob/master/quick-start-with-docker/README.md) and start it.

Once you have done that you need to add `application`, `admin`, `normal user`, `permission`, `resource` and user authorize to the [wolf-console](https://github.com/iGeeky/wolf/blob/master/docs/usage.md).

## Enable Plugin

You need to first configure the Plugin on a Consumer:

:::note
You can fetch the `admin_key` from `config.yaml` and save to an environment variable with the following command:

```bash
admin_key=$(yq '.deployment.admin.admin_key[0].key' conf/config.yaml | sed 's/"//g')
```

:::

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/consumers  -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
  "username":"wolf_rbac",
  "plugins":{
    "wolf-rbac":{
      "server":"http://127.0.0.1:12180",
      "appid":"restful"
    }
  },
  "desc":"wolf-rbac"
}'
```

:::note

The `appid` added in the configuration should already exist in wolf.

:::

You can now add the Plugin to a Route or a Service:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uri": "/*",
    "plugins": {
        "wolf-rbac": {}
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "www.baidu.com:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```

You can also use the [APISIX Dashboard](/docs/dashboard/USER_GUIDE) to complete the operation through a web UI.

<!--
![add a consumer](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/apisix/master/docs/assets/images/plugin/wolf-rbac-1.png)

![enable wolf-rbac plugin](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/apisix/master/docs/assets/images/plugin/wolf-rbac-2.png)
-->

## Example usage

You can use the `public-api` Plugin to expose the API:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/wal -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
    "uri": "/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login",
    "plugins": {
        "public-api": {}
    }
}'
```

Similarly, you can setup the Routes for `change_pwd` and `user_info`.

You can now login and get a wolf `rbac_token`:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login -i \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"appid": "restful", "username":"test", "password":"user-password", "authType":1}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 24 Jul 2019 10:33:31 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX web server
{"rbac_token":"V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts","user_info":{"nickname":"test","username":"test","id":"749"}}
```

:::note

The `appid`, `username`, and `password` must be configured in the wolf system.

`authType` is the authentication type—1 for password authentication (default) and 2 for LDAP authentication (v0.5.0+).

:::

You can also make a post request with `x-www-form-urlencoded` instead of JSON:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/login -i \
-H "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
-d 'appid=restful&username=test&password=user-password'
```

Now you can test the Route:

- without token:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/ -H"Host: www.baidu.com" -i
```

```
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
...
{"message":"Missing rbac token in request"}
```

- with token in `Authorization` header:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/ -H"Host: www.baidu.com" \
-H 'Authorization: V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

- with token in `x-rbac-token` header:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/ -H"Host: www.baidu.com" \
-H 'x-rbac-token: V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

- with token in request parameters:

```shell
curl 'http://127.0.0.1:9080?rbac_token=V1%23restful%23eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts' -H"Host: www.baidu.com" -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

- with token in cookie:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080 -H"Host: www.baidu.com" \
--cookie x-rbac-token=V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts -i
```

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<!DOCTYPE html>
```

And to get a user information:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/user_info \
--cookie x-rbac-token=V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
    "user_info":{
        "nickname":"test",
        "lastLogin":1582816780,
        "id":749,
        "username":"test",
        "appIDs":["restful"],
        "manager":"none",
        "permissions":{"USER_LIST":true},
        "profile":null,
        "roles":{},
        "createTime":1578820506,
        "email":""
    }
}
```

And to change a user's password:

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/wolf-rbac/change_pwd \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
--cookie x-rbac-token=V1#restful#eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpZCI6NzQ5LCJ1c2VybmFtZSI6InRlc3QiLCJtYW5hZ2VyIjoiIiwiYXBwaWQiOiJyZXN0ZnVsIiwiaWF0IjoxNTc5NDQ5ODQxLCJleHAiOjE1ODAwNTQ2NDF9.n2-830zbhrEh6OAxn4K_yYtg5pqfmjpZAjoQXgtcuts -i \
-X PUT -d '{"oldPassword": "old password", "newPassword": "new password"}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{"message":"success to change password"}
```

## Delete Plugin

To remove the `wolf-rbac` Plugin, you can delete the corresponding JSON configuration from the Plugin configuration. APISIX will automatically reload and you do not have to restart for this to take effect.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9180/apisix/admin/routes/1  -H "X-API-KEY: $admin_key" -X PUT -d '
{
    "methods": ["GET"],
    "uri": "/*",
    "plugins": {
    },
    "upstream": {
        "type": "roundrobin",
        "nodes": {
            "www.baidu.com:80": 1
        }
    }
}'
```
